Welcome to Exercise Number 4,
where we will analyze both your current
and your new and improved income statements.
Meaning the data that you created in Exercises 2 and 3.
And so please navigate to Exercise Number 4 here,
You can see the tab at the bottom here.
Or you can actually go there
by clicking on that "Next Exercise" button
on the top right hand corner.
Or, and I try to make it easy for you,
you can click right here to see all the exercises, okay?
So please navigate to Exercise 4,
"Analyzing Your Income Statement."
And "IS" stands for "Income Statement," okay?
And the left hand chart, here, and questions
pertain to your current income statement.
And the right hand chart, here, and questions, here,
are for your new and improved income statement.
(easy listening music)
And so please review these charts
and then answer Question Number 1, Part 1,
and Question Number 1, Part 2.
So Question 1, Parts 1 and 2
deals with how much money is left over
after all expenses
divided by your income after tax.
And higher is better, of course.
And so please pause me now
and answer Question 1, Parts 1 and 2,
in order to understand
how your monthly savings rate is currently.
Okay, meaning the left side of the exercise.
And what your new and improved savings rate will be,
meaning the right side.
Okay, so please pause me now
and answer Questions Part 1 and 2,
and then click on that plus symbol, there, you see here?
To check your answers.
And after you complete Question 1, then please unpause me.
Thanks.
Okay.
Now that you've completed Question 1,
and you've read the answers,
please try to make your savings rate, from now on,
way higher than 10%,
and please don't worry if you don't save any money yet,
because we're going to work on this in this course.
Okay, but promise me, though,
and I'm gonna get down on my knees, here, okay?
Promise me,
can you even see me?
I'll back up here.
(he chuckles slightly)
Here I am, praying.
And I'm doing this because I wanna make a point, here.
Promise me that when you get...
Hi there!
When you get your next raise,
please have as much of that raise as possible
deducted automatically from your bank account,
as it's out of sight and out of mind.
Kind of like I am right now.
Meaning I'm out of sight and I'm clearly out of my mind.
Okay, let me get up.
(grunt of exertion)
God, my knees!
God, the older I get, the better I was, man!
Now I understand why baseball catchers...
They get in the Hall Of Fame,
don't have as many hits as other people do!
Damn it, that hurt!
Okay.
But I did, anyway, I did all of that,
it's a little ridiculous why I did that
but I did all of that because I care.
And I want you to please remember that...
That when you get a raise,
the next raise you get, I want you to...
(snaps his fingers)
immediately make auto-withdrawals from your bank.
Okay?
And we're gonna discuss which banks to use
in Part 2 of the course, here, okay?
That'll be an exercise later.
Okay, let's move onto Question Number 2, now.
Where we will calculate our current housing expense
as a percent of our pre-tax income.
Okay, and as always,
you can ask me questions if you have those.
We'll go through this.
So please pause me and complete Question 2, Parts 1 and 2,
and then, like you've done in the past,
click on that plus symbol, there,
to check your answers and then unpause me.
Okay.
Ideally, we want our housing-related expenses
as a percent of our pre-tax income, to be below 28%.
Okay?
And if it's not under 28%
in your new and improved income statement,
then please try to cut back
on your household-related expenses, okay?
Our final question is Number 3,
where we're going to calculate our current debt expense
as a percent of pre-tax income.
So please complete Question 3, Parts 1 and 2,
and then again, click on the plus symbol
to check your answers, and then unpause me, thanks.
Okay.
We want our debt expenses,
divided by our pre-tax income,
to be under 36%.
Okay, so we are now done with Exercise Number 4,
and as always, if you have any questions,
please let me know.
Thank you.